'''WikiLinks'''

WikiLinks are formed in the usual way for a wiki.
Other links are:
* URLs: for example http://www.stateofflow.com mailto:channing@mac.com ftp://ftp.foo.com
* Eclipse Resources: Eclipse:/eclipsewiki/ChangeLog.txt
* Java Types: com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.WikiPlugin
* Files file:///Users/channing/file.txt

'''WikiSpace'''

WikiSpace Links, defined in Preferences allow links to be made to any other Wiki or website. Here are some defaults:
* Acronym:ISP
* Apache:general will link to http://wiki.apache.org/general
* Wiki:ExtremeProgramming will link to http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?ExtremeProgramming
* Google:eclipse will do a search for eclipse on Google
* ISBN:0920129234 will link to Amazon books

Users can define their own WikiSpace links:
for example, WikiSrc:WikiConstants.java is a local link defined in preferences, equivalent to Eclipse:/eclipsewiki/src/com/teaminabox/eclipse/wiki/WikiConstants.java

'''Excludes'''
You can exclude words from being linked to by putting them in a file called wiki.excludes in your wiki directory (one word per line).

'''Links'''
WikiLinks can be opened in three ways:
* From the Wiki menu pull down
* Place your cursor on a link and press F3
* Place your cursor on a link, open the pop-up menu and select 'Open Wiki Link'

'''Headers and Footers'''
* The files footer.wiki and header.wiki are automatically included in the Browser view and exported documents.

'''Other'''
* Opening a wiki link which does not exist will create a new page.
* Navigate to next/previous links using CTRL+SHIFT UP/DOWN arrows respectively.
* Hovering over a link will pop up a preview.
* CTRL+SPACE will open completion.

Back to HomePage