Back to HomePage, GeneralOverview

Syntax colouring in wiki is done with an IRule and org.eclipse.jface.text.rules.RuleBasedScanner

The wiki classes are:

* com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.editors.WikiScanner 
* implementations of com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.text.TextRegionMatcher

The scanner has a set of com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.text.TextRegionMatcher added to its set of rules upon construction. The particular set of matchers depends on the renderer chosen by the user.
The editor gets the scanner through the com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.editors.WikiConfiguration - see method public org.eclipse.jface.text.presentation.IPresentationReconciler 
getPresentationReconciler(org.eclipse.jface.text.source.ISourceViewer sourceViewer)

The method of interest for deciding upon colours is in the rule (com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.text.TextRegionMatcher):

	 :	public org.eclipse.jface.text.rules.IToken evaluate(org.eclipse.jface.text.rules.ICharacterScanner scanner) 

The algorithm for each matcher depends on what it is matching but basically:
* Using the scanner, scan to an appropriate end marker (whitespace, end of line, end of document, etc) for the matcher
** The first character is tested so that the matcher fails fast. For example, if the first character is not a capital letter then the com.teaminabox.eclipse.wiki.text.WikiWordMatcher will terminate immediately. This was done to help improve performance.
* If the text obtained is a match then an appropriate IToken is returned. If it isn't a match then org.eclipse.jface.text.rules.IToken.UNDEFINED is returned.

Thats all there is to it.

Back to HomePage, GeneralOverview